Paper #1: Closed-Loop control of trunk posture

Trunk assistance for rats with SCI re-establishes dynamic balance in their bilateral proprioceptive feedback circuits
thus restoring symmetry and movement consistency. There exists a relationship between trunk orientation and leg
kinematics and muscle activity. Gait rehabilitation is to restore sensory communication and reorganization of neural
connections. After severe spinal cord injury, the weak leg is unable to provide enough support for the stance and
remained over flexed, and the stronger leg was over extended. Using the assistance of the closed loop robotics control,
the gait cycle was improved showing a connection between the trunk assistance and improvements in locomotion.
Measurements using ground force, limb length, abduction angle at footstrike, step height, to determine the dominant
leg after spinal cord injury to adjust the control of an robotic system seems to be essential for expedited
rehabilitation. Additionally a limb kinematic model could be derived for better data visualization.

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-18293-y


Paper #2: Neurons that restore walking after paralysis

A SCI interrupts the connection between the brain and the brainstem that project instructions the to spinal cord that
lead to paralysis. Electric epidural stimulation in addition to a robotic support can improve the recovery of people
with chronic SCIs. Since this application is a out of my range as a computer science major, neuron stimulation using
EES Rehab technologies is something that is not practical. Tracking of brain activity might be beneficial to analyze
the brain activations in healthy vs spinal cord injured mice. For statistical analysis two sided, independent t-tests
can be used when appropriate to supplement data visualization with an alpha value of 0.05. Python neuron simulations
can be performed in the NEURON simulation environment. R machine learning models for cell types are also accessible for
use.

https://github.com/neurorestore/Augur
https://github.com/neurorestore/Magellan
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05385-7


Paper #3: DeepLabCut for 3D markerless pose estimation

DeepLabCut is a noninvasive behavioral tracking software that uses deep learning neural network to extract a wire model
estimation of a specified subject determined by training. Deep lab cut extracts frames that reflect the diversity of the
subject. Those frames are then manually annotated to contribute towards a training data set. The pre-trained network is
then refined end-to-end to adapt its weight to the desired features. The performance of the network can then be
continually trained on more data with statistical determinations of the probability that the model is correct.
Advantages of DeepLabCut is that it does not require markers on the animal which can tend to be invasive or have
applications where markers will not work. Additionally, contrasted backgrounds are not necessary either with the
model. 3D Pose estimation is also possible with multi camera setups.

https://github.com/DeepLabCut/DeepLabCut
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41596-019-0176-0
